---
layout: archive
title: "Portfolio"
permalink: /portfolio/
author_profile: true
---

{% include base_path %}

<!-- ### Spotify Listening Habit Analysis: <br>

[GitHub Repository](https://github.com/yatri1609/Spotify-Analysis)

**Skills:** Tableau, Python, Data Visualization, Data Analysis, Data Story-telling

**Project Overview:** <br>
This [dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/yatri.patel6575/viz/SpotifyMusicalJourney/SpotifyDashboard) illustrates a comprehensive view of a Spotify listener's musical journey from 2019 to 2024. Using Python for data cleaning and preprocessing, the dataset was meticulously refined to ensure accuracy in visualization. Tableau served as the tool for crafting this interactive dashboard, which elegantly presents the user's listening patterns.
The "Top Artist" section showcases a horizontal bar graph with the user's most-listened artists, with BTS leading, followed by Stray Kids and SEVENTEEN, indicating a strong preference for K-pop. The "Genres" bubble chart reveals a dominance of K-pop, K-rap, and pop, reflecting the varied yet specific music genres enjoyed by the user.
"Listenership by Month" displays a monthly trend analysis of the user's listening habits over the years with a bar chart, providing insights into the fluctuating engagement. The "Listenership by Hour on Shuffle" is a shaded area graph highlighting the times of day when the user is most likely to listen to music on shuffle, peaking in the evening.
This project represents a personalized analysis of music consumption, offering the user an introspective look at their musical preferences and how they have evolved over time. The combination of Python's powerful data manipulation capabilities and Tableau's sophisticated visualization tools makes this dashboard not only informative but also visually appealing.


### Music Generation with Machine Learning: <br>

[GitHub Repository](https://github.com/yatri1609/Music-Generation)

**Skills:** Machine Learning Algorithms, Generative Models, Data Science, Python

**Project Overview:** <br>
This project explores music generation using techniques like Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs). Leveraging Python, Keras, and TensorFlow, neural networks are trained on a dataset of MIDI files of classical piano compositions to generate new musical compositions.
The project preprocesses the MIDI data, encoding musical features like pitch, duration, and velocity into numerical representations for training. RNNs like LSTMs and GRUs learn temporal patterns and sequences in music, while CNNs capture local patterns and features.
You can listen to the music generated by the trained models on [SoundCloud](https://soundcloud.com/yatri-patel-793078277/sets/lstm-gan-neural-network).
The [GitHub repository](https://github.com/yatri1609/Music-Generation) contains a Jupyter Notebook that guides through data preparation, model architecture design, training, and evaluation. Techniques like gradient descent algorithms, regularization, dropout, and early stopping are employed for efficient training and generalization. -->

## LLM for Document Based Question Answering - [Github Repository](https://github.com/Divy2000/Document-Based-QnA-LLM)

**Skills:** Large Language Models &#124; RAG Implementation &#124; Prompt Engineering &#124; Chat Automation

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Developed Large Language Model (LLM) using RAG implementation to interpret PDFs, CSV, and JSON files, with **98%** accuracy.
- Used LangChain for efficient storage and retrieval, ensuring accurate responses by implementing Prompt Engineering.
- Enhanced chat automation processes by testing model performance on diverse and complex queries.

## Smart Campus Human Detection

**Skills:** Deep Learning

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Annotated a dataset used for a smart campus project involving human detection with a 3D LiDAR camera.
- Developed and tested a Neural Network AI model using 2D and 3D CNNs to detect human presence, achieving **98%** accuracy.
- Contributed to the development of a smart campus solution aimed at monitoring and managing crowd density in campus areas.

## Skin Disease Detector App - [Github Repository](https://github.com/Divy2000/Skin-Diseases-Detection-Hackbash)             

**Skills:** Deep Learning &#124; Computer Vision &#124; Real-Time Classification &#124; Model Optimization &#124; Data Augmentation

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Led the development of skin disease detector app during a 24-hour hackathon, using TensorFlow Lite for real-time classification.
- Preprocessed and augmented Harvard skin disease images using OpenCV and did model tuning to achieve **82%** accuracy.
- Developed and integrated the model into an Android app for disease classification via smartphone camera and to find nearest dermatologist.

## Brain Tumor Recognizer App - [Github Repository](https://github.com/Divy2000/Brain-Tumor-Recognizer-App)

**Skills:** Model Optimization &#124; Azure Custom Vision &#124; Data Augmentation

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Developed AI model for real-time image classification of 2-D brain MRI scans using TensorFlow Lite and Azure's Custom Vision Service.
- Preprocessed and augmented Harvard dataset skin disease images with noise addition and model tuning for optimized performance.
- Developed and exported a TensorFlow Lite model, integrated it into an Android app for mobile healthcare via smartphone camera.

## Satellite Image Segmentation with SLIC and Canny

**Skills:** SLIC &#124; Canny Edge Detection &#124; HOG &#124; GLCM &#124; K-Means Clustering &#124; Remote Sensing

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Combined **Simple Linear Iterative Clustering (SLIC)** and **Canny Edge Detection** for precise segmentation of satellite images.
- Utilized **Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG)** and **Gray-Level Co-occurrence Matrix (GLCM)** to refine superpixels and enhance boundary precision.
- Applied **K-means clustering** and **label mapping** to achieve accurate classification in remote sensing imagery.

## Gesture-Based Media Control System - [Github Repository](https://github.com/Divy2000/Gesture-Based-Media-Control-System)
**Skills:** Deep Learning &#124; Data Augmentation

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Curated a dataset of hand gestures for play/pause, volume up, and volume down functions.
- Applied preprocessing and augmentation techniques to enhance gesture recognition accuracy to **95%**.
- Developed a gesture recognition model and integrated it with media controls for hands-free operation.

## Material Search Engine

**Skills:** Machine Learning &#124; Deep Learning

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Led my team to develop a classification model for material detection using d-values from X-ray diffraction data.
- Trained and evaluated various classification models to identify material types based on 4 distinct d-values with ∼**100%** accuracy.

## EV Battery RUL Predictor - [Github Repository](https://github.com/Divy2000/BatteryRULpredictor)

**Skills:** Machine Learning &#124; Django &#124; NASA Prognostic Dataset &#124; Data Visualization &#124; Predictive Analytics

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Developed a machine learning solution to predict the **Remaining Useful Life (RUL)** of EV batteries.
- Integrated prediction models into a **Django-based website** for user-friendly inputs and automated predictions.
- Visualized battery degradation using the **NASA Prognostic dataset** to track performance over time.
- Presented **real-time predictions** for battery performance and life expectancy, enhancing user decision-making on battery usage.

## Bus Number Recognition System - [Github Repository](https://github.com/Divy2000/Bus-Number-Recognition-System)

**Skills:** Computer Vision &#124; OCR &#124; Google Cloud Compute &#124; Arduino Integration &#124; Real-Time Data

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Developed a bus number detection app using OpenCV and EasyOCR to identify and announce bus numbers for visually impaired users.
- Set up a Google Cloud Compute server and integrated it with an Arduino client to capture and process images.
- Integrated Arduino with Singapore government systems to fetch real-time bus arrival data and provide announcements.

## Process Scheduling Visualization Application - [Github Repository](https://github.com/Divy2000/Scheduling-Algorithms-GUI)

**Skills:** Java &#124; Data Visualization &#124; Process Scheduling &#124; GUI Development

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Developed a Java app to compute imoprtant metrics for process scheduling algorithms.
- Implemented features for input and visualization of process data, including options to add, edit, and execute scheduling algorithms.
- Generated visual graphs to represent calculated metrics, enhancing user understanding of scheduling performance.

## Student Drowsiness Detection System  - [Github Repository](https://github.com/Divy2000/Drowsiness-Detection/tree/main)

**Skills:** Deep Learning &#124; Computer Vision &#124; Data Extraction &#124; Real-Time Prediction

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Extracted 57,488 images from ultraLDD dataset, applied masking using dlib, faceutils along-with OpenCV to focus on eyes and mouth.
- Optimized data handling with a custom TensorFlow data generator for memory-efficient CNN training, achieving **93%** accuracy.
- Implemented real-time prediction from live camera feeds or saved videos, displaying drowsiness detection results with overlay on the screen.

## Pore Pressure Gradient Prediction

**Skills:** Machine Learning &#124; Deep Learning &#124; Data Visualization

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Utilized machine learning and deep learning to forecast Pore Pressure Gradient (PPG) for optimal oil well drilling with an **RMSE of 0.15**.
- Validated model predictions, ensuring accuracy and practical applicability minimizing the need for dynamite blasts.
- Fine-tuned various regression and deep learning models, successfully selecting XGBoost for superior prediction accuracy and efficiency.

## Node Classification in Graph Networks Using GNNs

**Skills:** Deep Learning &#124; Graph Neural Networks (GNN)

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Developed and optimized Graph Neural Network models (GCN, GAT, GraphSAGE) achieving accuracy of **90.16%** on the Cora dataset.
- Implemented and tested advanced techniques like attention mechanisms and scalable embeddings to improve classification accuracy.
- Collaborated in a team to analyze results and present findings, highlighting GNN applications in real-world scenarios.

## Smart Parking Database Management System - [Github Repository](https://github.com/Divy2000/Smart-Parking-Database-Managment-System)

**Skills:** Database Design &#124; Data Testing &#124; SQL &#124; Data Validation

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Led development of comprehensive database management system for smart parking lot application.
- Generated 24,000 entries of dummy data to thoroughly test and validate the functionality of the database management system.
- Created comprehensive documentation with SQL queries, query output snapshots, and CSV exports for database testing and analysis.

## Twitter Sentiment Analysis - [Github Repository](https://github.com/Divy2000/Twitter-Sentiment-Analysis)

**Skills:** Natural Language Processing (NLP) &#124; Machine Learning &#124; Data Visualization &#124; Data Pipelines

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Developed Twitter Sentiment Analysis framework, utilizing TweePy and incorporating Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques.
- Engineered data pipelines to analyze over 30,000 tweets, revealing sentiment trends through word clouds, pie chart and scatterplots.
- Applied K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) classifier, enhancing the analysis of sentiment distributions across different political groups.

## Graph Operations and Search  - [Github Repository](https://github.com/Divy2000/Graph-Operations-and-Search)

**Skills:** Java &#124; Graph Operations &#124; CLI Development

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Developed Java application for graph operations, with features like parsing DOT files, node and edge management, and visualization.
- Developed and integrated search algorithms including Breadth-First Search (BFS), Depth-First Search (DFS).
- Provided command-line interface for interacting with graph structures, performing searches, and exporting results in .dot and image formats.

## Temporal Hyperlink Prediction

**Skills:** Machine Learning &#124; Deep Learning &#124; Temporal Prediction &#124; Bibliometric Analysis

**Project Overview:** <br>
- Conducted research on temporal hyperlink prediction in hypergraph using a bibliometric dataset of 50,000 neuroblastoma publications.
- Enhanced existing mathematical, machine learning, and deep learning techniques of graph link prediction for hypergraph link prediction.
- Developed predictive models with **77%** accuracy to forecast emerging research branches and predict recipes from available ingredients.

